<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 3.2//EN">
<HTML>
<HEAD>
<TITLE>ADASS POC Lunch Meeting Minutes</TITLE>
</HEAD>

<BODY BGCOLOR="#ffffff"> 
<H1 ALIGN=CENTER>Minutes of ADASS POC Lunch Meeting</H1>

 <P ALIGN=CENTER><I>15 November 2000</I></P>
<H4 ALIGN=CENTER>12:30 - 2:00 pm, Atrium Lobby Lounge</H4>

<HR>
<H3>Attendees</H3>
<P>
<B>POC:</B> 
Rudi Albrecht, 
Daniel Durand, 
Rick Harnden, 
Gareth Hunt, 
George Jacoby, 
Jan Noordam, 
Dick Shaw, 
Betty Stobie, 
Doug Tody, 
Patrick Wallace</P>
<P>
<B>LOC:</B> 
Severin Gaudet (2001 LOC); 
Michelle Henson, Frank Primini, Su Tuttle (2000 LOC)
</P>
<HR>

<H1>Summary</H1>
<P>
The following is a summary of the discussion of items listed in the 
<A HREF="agenda_00.html">meeting agenda</A>. 
</P>

<H3>1. Report of ADASS X LOC</H3>
<P>
The conference was running very smoothly, and the POC gratefully 
acknowledged the outstanding efforts of the LOC in hosting ADASS X.  
The unofficial total attendance reached 293. The new "Job Posting" 
board, and the walk-up network connections (for personal laptops) 
appeared to be very popular. </P>

<H3>2. Budget</H3>
<H4>Budget for ADASS X; Status of Carry-over Funds</H4>
<P>
This conference was by a large margin the most expensive ADASS meeting. The 
total cost of nearly $104,000 exceeded revenues by roughly $13,000 (precise 
amount TBD), which is being covered by ADASS carry-over funds.  This 
will leave a balance in the carry-over fund of roughly $10,000, which 
is only about 10-15% of a typical ADASS budget.  This shortfall was largely 
predicted in the initial ADASS X budget (in 1999) and, in retrospect, had 
there been agreement to raise the registration fee by $50, there would have 
been no shortfall.  It will be important in future years to keep fees more 
in line with actual costs: this year the registration fees provided only 
about 55% of the revenue, whereas a fraction near 75% would involve far less 
financial risk. </P>

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=4 CELLSPACING=4 WIDTH=500 ALIGN=CENTER>
<CAPTION><B>Action Items</B></CAPTION>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Frank, Su</TD>
    <TD>Send the finalized ADASS X budget to Dick Shaw and Daniel Durand 
	(2001 LOC) as soon as possible to facilitate planning.</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD>Rick</TD>
    <TD>Send the final budgets from past meetings (98 & 99) to Dick & Daniel 
	as soon as possible.</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>

<H4>Future Funding Strategy</H4>
<P>
A discussion of possible funding sources followed, from which it was 
agreed that increases in ADASS registration fees (over this year's fee 
of $190 US) of the order of 25% were acceptable if needed to balance 
the budget for future conferences.  A registration fee near $250 US 
(exclusive of fees for demos, the banquet, and tutorials) 
would be more or less consistent with other astronomical conferences, 
and is lower than typical fees for professional software conferences 
by a factor of two or more. </P> 
<P>
Gareth Hunt investigated the possibility of a multi-year support from 
NSF.  While his contact acknowledged this possibility, it would 
require a formal review.  Evidently the $5000 in annual support for 
ADASS can be approved at NSF discretion, in response to a very informal 
request.  Thus, there apprears to be no advantage to submitting a request 
to NSF for multi-year funding, and it could complicate the process for all 
involved.  Glenn Miller investigated the possibility of multi-year funding 
from NASA, and the reaction was positive.  Evidently, NASA believes it 
costs them nearly as much to process as to grant a proposal for the funding 
request near $5000(<B>!</B>).  We should pursue multi-year funding from NASA. </P> 
<P>
The POC was reminded that no US Government agency funds, nor funds from 
most of our institutions, can be provided in direct support of the ADASS 
conference when it is held outside of the US (i.e., next year and in 2003).  
Such funding has amounted to ~25% of the conference 
budget when it is held in the US, and its absence adversely impacts the 
conference when it is held elsewhere.  Evidently, the prospects for 
comparable funding from Canadian sources next year are not good.  Dick, 
Doug, & Daniel discussed 
a strategy of using institutuional contributions to the ADASS carry-over 
funds to produce the ADASS `01 proceedings.  The idea is that the annual 
contributions from our respective organizations would be used to pay 
ASP (a US-based company) directly to produce the proceedings for attendees.  
Doug is checking into the financial allowability of such an approach and, 
if it is legitimate, that would provide roughly $14,000 US in 
support of next year's meeting, which would make the budget much easier 
to balance. Dick Crutcher is investigating the possibility of NCSA 
providing a direct donation to CADC/U. Victoria in support of the 
conference. </P>

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=4 CELLSPACING=4 WIDTH=500 ALIGN=CENTER>
<CAPTION><B>Action Items</B></CAPTION>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Gareth, <BR>Glenn</TD>
    <TD>Send past proposals to NSF, NASA to Dick Shaw and Doug Tody, which  
	will be placed in the "POC administrative area" on adass.org to 
	serve as a template for future funding requests.</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Doug</TD>
    <TD>Create the "POC administrative area" on adass.org and place past 
	proposals to NSF & NASA there.</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Doug</TD>
    <TD>Investigate the allowability of using ADASS carry-over funds to 
	pay for next year's proceedings.</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Dick C.</TD>
    <TD>Investigate the possibility of an NCSA contribution to CADC for 
	ADASS `01.</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>

<H3>3. Publication of the Proceedings</H3>
<H4>Report from ADASS X Editors</H4>
<P>
The editor team for ADASS X (Harnden, Payne & Primini) report that the 
proceedings submission deadlines, submission instructions, and author 
resources are all ready and available from the ADASS X Website. A 1-2 page 
summary will be published in the PASP "Conference Highlights" section, to 
be written by Bob Hanisch and George Jacoby.  This is good advertising 
for ADASS in the community. </P> 

<H4>Selection of Proceedings 2001 Editor Team</H4>
<P>
The editor team for ADASS `01 should be selected in the next few months 
so that they may prepare instructions, files, and procedures for the 
for the next meetings' submissions, and 
so that the experience of the current editor team can be transferred to 
them smoothly. It would be prudent to name at least 3 editors, owing to 
the quantity of work to be performed; ideally at least one of them 
would be an experienced ASP proceedings editor. </P> 
<P>
Last year we were in danger of having no proceedings produced whatever. 
After the premature "retirement" of the then lead editor, Nadine Manset 
took on the heavy responsibility of producing both the hardcopy and 
electronic proceedings.  This task was all the greater because the ADASS `99 
proceedings contained 25% more contributions than average: over 150 papers. 
Nadine's willingness to put aside her other responsibilities and carry this 
project through was greatly appreciated by the POC and former ADASS 
proceedings editors. From this experience it is clear that certain steps 
should be taken to ensure a successful production of future ADASS 
proceedings, including the following action items. </P>

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=4 CELLSPACING=4 WIDTH=500 ALIGN=CENTER>
<CAPTION><B>Action Items</B></CAPTION>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>All</TD>
    <TD>Send to the POC distribution nominations for individuals who 
	would be able and willing to edit the proceedings for ADASS XI. 
	(While this has often included members of the host LOC, Daniel 
	Durand has declined to be considered.)</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD>Dick</TD>
    <TD>Ensure that an editor team is in place by spring of 2001. </TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>ADASS X <BR>Editor Team</TD>
    <TD>Provide a list to Dick Shaw of the 3 or 4 most time-consuming editing 
	tasks that might be avoided through a revision of the publication 
	policies, or be ameliorated through technical solutions.</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>

<H4>Review of ADASS Paper Presentation Policy</H4>
<P>
A review of the <A HREF="http://ra.stsci.edu/shaw/adass/paper_policy.html">
ADASS paper presentation policy</A>, and its implementation for ADASS X, 
was <B><I>deferred to a subsequent e-mail discussion.</I></B></P>

<H4>Contribution on ADASS to Heck's Forthcoming Book</H4>
<P>
A possible contribution on the ADASS conference series to A. Heck's 
forthcoming book: <I>Organizations and Strategies in Astronomy</I> (c.f. the 
<A HREF="http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/~heck/sotoc.htm">first volume</A>) was 
<B><I>deferred to a subsequent e-mail discussion.</I></B></P>

<H3>4. Future ADASS Venues</H3>
<H4>Competing Meetings in 2001</H4>
<P>
The following meetings will be held in 2001 with topics or themes that 
have overlap a great deal with topics that have traditionally been 
featured at ADASS: </P>

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=4 CELLSPACING=4 ALIGN=CENTER>
<CAPTION><B>Competing Meetings in 2001</B></CAPTION>
<TR>
    <TH>Meeting</TH>
    <TH>Date</TH>
    <TH>Location</TH>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD><A HREF="http://www.spie.org/web/meetings/calls/am01/confs/AM309.html">
		SPIE/Astronomical Data Analysis</A></TD>
    <TD>29 July - 3 Aug.</TD>
    <TD>San Diego</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD><A HREF="http://www.astro.psu.edu/SCMA">
		Statistical Challenges in Modern Astronomy III</A></TD>
    <TD>18 - 21 July</TD>
    <TD>PSU</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>
<P>
Evidently the NVO workshops that Bob Hanisch was concerned about (recall 
prior postings to the POC distribution) are either centered around science 
topics, or are PR/Outreach related, to be featured at the summer AAS. 
It was suggested that the SPIE/ADA meeting would be oriented primarily 
toward algorithms, and have little emphasis on implementation.  Still, the 
overlap with likely ADASS topics (such as NVO) is considerable, and may 
draw somewhat from the ADASS audience.  This may be a problem, in that 
attendance at ADASS typically drops by ~30% when it is held outside the 
US.  It is true that ADASS has in the 
last few years emphasized the last two letters of the acronym, somewhat 
at the expense of the first three.  This has the effect of orienting the 
program more to software developers rather than to astronomers, which is 
not altogether a good thing. Suggestions for key topics for the next year 
that would help reverse this trend would be most welcome. </P>
<P>
It was agreed that little could be done to influence the other conferences 
in this area, though Doug offered to keep looking for opportunities to 
"guide" the emphasis of the SPIE meeting (of which he is an organizer) 
so that it does not threaten the success of ADASS.  
To help ensure that ADASS `01 is a success it will be important to organize 
the program earlier this year than has been typical, and to advertise earlier 
and more widely.  For this we can make good use of the adass.org Web site. 
We can also announce ADASS `01 sooner than usual, even without a 
complete speaker list. Note that three of the places we need to advertise 
are the AAS (Newsletter), the CADC at <A HREF="http://cadcwww.dao.nrc.ca/meetings/meetings.html">
http://cadcwww.dao.nrc.ca/meetings/meetings.html</A>, and on <A HREF="mailto:DRAKE@lheavx.gsfc.nasa.gov">Steve Drake's</A> 
list at <A HREF="http://guinan.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/heasarc/meetings.html#SAW">
http://guinan.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/heasarc/meetings.html#SAW</A></P> 

<H4>Victoria 2001</H4>
<P>
The next ADASS conference will be hosted by CADC/U. Victoria from 
30 Sep. - 3 Oct. 2001.  
The ADASS LOC at the moment consists of Daniel Durand and Severin Gaudet, 
and they report that they are significantly under-staffed. They also have 
some unanticipated financial difficulties to work through, some of which 
were the result of new rules and restrictions placed on them by their 
governing organization. The solution to the finances awaits a final 
budget, which will draw upon the experience of prior ADASS meetings.  
(Additional help may come in the form of support from the ADASS carry-over 
funds if this expense can be paid directly. See section 2 above.)  Recall 
that no NASA/NSF funds can be used to support the meeting directly, nor 
can CADC transfer any surplus into the ADASS carry-over funds. The 
staffing problem can be ameliorated by accelerating the adass.org Web site 
development plan, so that it can support paper submissions, registration, 
and various "boiler-plate" items.  
</P>
<P>
The discussion of key topics and speakers for ADASS `01 was 
<B><I>deferred to a subsequent e-mail report and an informal POC lunch 
at the AAS in San Diego on 10 January 2001.</I></B></P>

<H4>Baltimore 2002, and Beyond</H4>
<P>
The ADASS will be hosted by STScI in Baltimore in 2002.  A contract has 
been signed with the Marriott Waterfront hotel (a new hotel in the east 
bay, opening 1 Feb. 2001) for the venue.  The dates will be 13 - 16 Oct. 
In 2003 ADASS will be hosted by CDS in Strasbourg, France. IPAC is 
working on a proposal to Caltech to host ADASS in 2004.  Tom Handley is 
the contact person, and he needs budget figures from recent ADASS 
conferences to support his proposal. </P>

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=4 CELLSPACING=4 WIDTH=500 ALIGN=CENTER>
<CAPTION><B>Action Items</B></CAPTION>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Rick</TD>
    <TD>Transfer ADASS X "Milestones" chart and "to-do" list to Daniel 
	Durand to support ADASS `01 planning.</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD>Dick</TD>
    <TD>Ensure that ADASS budget information is sent to Tom Handley.</TD>
</TR>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Tom</TD>
    <TD>Compose a successful proposal to Caltech to host ADASS in 2004. 
	Includes generating an invitation to the POC Chair from an 
	authorizing official at Caltech. </TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>

<H3>5. POC Membership</H3>
<P>
George Jacoby will step down from the POC following this meeting. 
Suggestions were offered to add a LOC member from ADASS `02 to the POC 
e-mail distribution, and a new POC members from Strasbourg (ADASS `03), 
Japan, and Australia. 
</P>

<TABLE BORDER=0 CELLPADDING=4 CELLSPACING=4 WIDTH=500 ALIGN=CENTER>
<CAPTION><B>Action Items</B></CAPTION>
<TR>
    <TD VALIGN=TOP>Dick</TD>
    <TD>Contact current POC members individually by e-mail to ask whether 
	they are willing and able to participate in the organization of 
	ADASS `01.</TD>
</TR>
</TABLE>

<H3>6. The <A HREF="http://www.adass.org/">adass.org Web site</A></H3>
<P>
The report of adass.org Web Site Working Group was 
<B><I>deferred to a subsequent e-mail report.</I></B></P>

<HR>

</BODY>
</HTML>

