I was born in 1980 in Moscow. I defended master thesis in astronomy in
December 2002 under the supervision of Serguei Dodonov (Special
Astrophysical Observatory of Russian Academy of Sciences, SAO RAS). I have 
started PhD in April.

I finished Moscow phys.-math. secondary school #1534 with gold medal in
1997. During that studying 3 times (and 95,96 and 97) I got a 1-st degree
award on Russian school olimpiad on astronomy and space physics. In 1996 I
got 1-st degree award on the 1st International Astronomical Olimpiad.

I entered the Astronomical Division of the Physics Department of Moscow
State University in 1997. I finished MSU with gold medal and got
"Astronomer" degree in Jannuary 2003.

My scientific interests are: distant galaxies, distant quasars,
observational cosmology, evolution of galaxies, evolution of active galactic
nuclei, photometrical classification of objects (multi-color, SED-fitting),
3D-spectroscopy, astronomical databases, virtual instruments for
extragalactic astronomy.

During the graduate studying I have been working in the SAO RAS for the
total time of about 1.5 years under the supervision of the head of LSPEO,
Serguei Dodonov. I had obtained good skills in the observational techniques,
data processing algorithms (including 3D-spectroscopy) . Also I'm working
with IT professionals from Sternberg Astronomical Institute, who are
included in the official PostgreSQL developer list (Oleg Bartunov and Teodor
Sigaev). I have been participating in HyperLeda international collaboration
(and now in MIGALE, PI: Philippe Prugniel) for 2 years. It allowed me to get
advanced practice in the applied, database and system programming for
different software/hardware platforms.


My observational experience:
----------------------------
1. Prime focus direct imaging at 6-meter telescope (BTA) of the Special
Astrophysical Observatory (SAO RAS), Russia.

2. Prime focus 3D-spectroscopy using MPFS(Multi Pupil Fiber Spectrograph),
MOFS(Multi Object Fiber Spectrograph) and IFP(Fabri-Perot Interferometer) at BTA.

3. Prime focus long-slit observations at the BTA.

4. Long-slit spectroscopy and direct imaging at 1m Zeiss telescope (SAO RAS).


My IT experience:
-----------------
1)Hardware: PC (ix86), Sun (Sparc/UltraSPARC), DEC Alpha, 10 years experience

2)OS: Linux/*BSD/Solaris/Tru64 Unix/SCO Unix/Windows, 10 yrs

3)DBMS: BerkeleyDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL (including backend server
programming), 4 yrs

4)Programming: C/C++/Perl/RSI IDL/Maple/Fortran/Pascal, 8 yrs

5)Algorithms:  standard numerical techniques and statictics (chi^2
minimization, maximum-likelihood method, fast fourier transforms), image
reconstruction, artifical neural networks, 3 yrs

6)Astronomical software: MIDAS

7)Internet: TCP/IP, secure protocols, WEB developement, CGI programming, 6 yrs


At present I'm envolved in several astrophysical and IT-related projects:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
1) Search of primeval galaxies and very distant quasars on BTA -
observations, data processing, analysis and interpreting, development and
realization of high-performance algorithms for photometrical classification
and redshift determination of astronomical objects. Results: master thesis +
1 conference paper + 2 papers in preparation.

2) The HyperLEDA database as part of MIGALE project (evolution of galaxies
during last 9 Gigayears) and AVO (Astrophysical Virtual Observatory)
projects, international collaboration, http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/.
Responsible for DBMS development using PostgreSQL. New version of DBMS for
HyperLeda using server back-end programming is being developed now. Results:
1 conference paper.

3) MASTER project (Mobile Astronomical System of the TElescope-Robots)
Synchronous optical observations of Gamma-ray bursts. Interpreting of the
results, data processing, pipeline software development. Results: 7 GCN
circulars + 2 papers in preparation.

4) AstroNET (Russian Astronomical Network) Sky Map online project
http://www.astronet.ru/db/map/ - developer, http://www.astronet.ru/db/map+/
- fast access to the data for more than 530 millions astronomical objects in
the database - principal developer. This work was supported by the RFBR
grants #02-07-90222 and #02-07-06096.

5) pgSphere, open source software project,
http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/pgsphere/. Methods for working with
spherical coordinates inside PostgreSQL database engine, including spatial
indices construction. Testing and debugging, creation of scientific
applications based on this product. This project is supported by the RFBR
grants #02-07-90222 and #03-07-06116.

6) pgAstro, open source software project, PostgreSQL contribution module for
astronomy-related tasks. The developement has just begun. It is supported by
the same grants as pgSphere.

The following works were completed during the graduate studying:
----------------------------------------------------------------
2001 Apr:
Classification of astronomical objects using photometric data.
Supervisor.: Dr. Dodonov (SAO RAS)

2001 May:
The spiral galaxy NGC23: Photometry and Kinematics.
Supervisor.: Dr. Khoruzhii (INASAN)
This work was awarded with the highest award on the first student scientific
work competition "Astronet-2001".

2002 Dec:
Diploma (master) thesis: Object classification by SEDs.
Supervisor.: Dr. Dodonov (SAO RAS)
This work was awarded with the highest award on the student scientific work
competition "Astronet-2003".

Bibliography:
-------------
1. Object classification by SEDs. Igor V. Chilingarian, Serguei N. Dodonov
(supervisor). International conference for graduate, postgraduate students
and young scientists on fundamential sciences "Lomonosov-2003". Section:
Physics, proceedings of the conference, issued by Physics Department of MSU,
2003, pp.16-17

2. HyperLeda: Virtual instruments for extragalactic astronomy. Philippe
Prugniel, Georges Paturel, Vladimir Georgiev, Igor Chilingarian and Chantal
Petit. IVOA interoperability meeting, July 2002.

3-9. GRB Coordinate Network circulars: 2002, 2035, 2091, 2103, 2157, 2158,
2262. Lipunov, V.; Krylov, A.; Kornilov, V.; Borisov, G.; Belinski, A.;
Chilingarian, I.; Kuvshinov, D.; Kuznetsov, M. V.; Potanin, S.; Vitrischak,
V.; Antipov, G.
