PostgreSQL: the suitable DBMS solution for astronomy and astrophysics.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Chilingarian, I.; Bartunov, O.; Richter, J.; Sigaev, T. (author list is preliminary)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

PostgreSQL, the open-source RDBMS, is probably one of the best database
solutions for astronomy and astrophysics. Compared to several available
commercial and non-commercial database engines, it appears to be the most
versatile.

At present PostgreSQL is being used in several well-known astronomical
projects, for example in the HyperLEDA database, http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/
and in the MAPS, http://aps.umn.edu/ (Minnesota Automated Plate Scanner)
Catalog of the POSS1.

Extensibility is the most remarkable feature of this RDBMS - it allows to
develop custom data types, queries and indexed access methods, optimized for
specific tasks, without knowledge of database internals. This is very
important for "non-standard" tasks, typical for scientific reaserch.

We present two backend programmed modules.

    * pgSphere, the ready-for-use contribution module for PostgreSQL, offers
the capability for dealing with geometric objects in spherical coordinates.
This module demonstrates all the possibilities of backend programming using
the GiST interface for spatial indexing of spherical data. pgSphere can be
very useful in astronomy and the geo-sciences. Performance tests are
included.

    * pgAstro, the contribution module based on the pgSphere engine,
provides astronomy-specific functions and methods, for example positional 
astronomy and physical models.

We show that PostgreSQL is the most advanced database solution for
astronomical applications and would be very useful for different Virtual
Observatory projects.
